# Predict Student Performance from Gameplay

## Introduction
The **Movie Recommendation System** is designed to suggest movies to users based on their preferences. It leverages machine learning techniques and collaborative filtering to provide personalized recommendations.

## Context 
Game-based learning is transforming education by making learning enjoyable, dynamic, and engaging. However, while its adoption is growing, there is still limited research and application of  advanced knowledge-tracing methods within educational games. This project aims to address this gap by leveraging one of the largest open datasets of game logs to predict student performance during game-based learning in real-time.  By building predictive models, participants will contribute to advancing knowledge-tracing techniques, enabling developers to create more effective educational games and tools for educators. This initiative supports the broader mission of making game-based learning more impactful, fostering better learning outcomes, and promoting accessibility in education. 

## Dataset
- The data can be accessed by this [link](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/predict-student-performance-from-game-play/data/).
-  The objective of this competition is to use time series data generated by an online educational game to determine whether players will answer questions correctly. There are three question checkpoints (level 4, level 12, and level 22), each with a number of questions. At each checkpoint, you will have access to all previous test data for that section. 

## Model and Algorithm
- Feature engineering by aggregating categorical and numerical features at the session-level grouped by level_group.
- Using XGBoost model because of its superiority when working with tabular data.

## Acknowledgments
- Field Day Lab and the Learning Agency Lab would like to thank the Walton Family Foundation and Schmidt Futures for making this work possible.

